# Solution 1317 - Convert Integer to the Sum of Two No-Zero Integers

This solution was refactored with drastic runtime improvements by using a generator expression. The improved code will be explained, with a comparison to the old code at the end to understand why its so much faster.

## Original Solution : 

```python
class Solution(object):
    def getNoZeroIntegers(self, n):
        return filter(lambda x: '0' not in str(x[0]) and '0' not in str(x[1]), list([[a,n-a] for a in range(n)]))[0]
```

## Improved Solution (98.31% Runtime Improvement) :

```python
class Solution(object):
    def getNoZeroIntegers(self, n):
        return next(([a,n-a] for a in range(n) if '0' not in str(a) and '0' not in str(n-a)))
```

## Explanation : 

This code uses a generator expression and `next()` to efficiently find one valid solution (of potentially many) to the problem.

The expression inside the generator is essentially a list comprehension with a built-in filter, returning pairs of numbers `[a,n-a]` which sum to `n`. It tests every number in the range from 0 to `n` for the values of `a`, only returning it as valid if both `a` and `n-a` are "No-Zero" integers.

The "No-Zero" condition is extremely simple, it converts the numbers to strings, and checks if the substring `'0'` is not found in both numbers.

Finally, we return `next()` of the generator expression which produces a valid list

## Comparison :

The reason the runtime difference is so significant is because of the computation involved in both solutions. The first uses a list comprehension, while the second uses a generator expression.

While they both look extremely similar at first glance in terms of the construction, there is a fundamental difference in how they work. A list comprehension computes all values, while a generator applies a concept called "lazy evaluation". Essentially saying "I will only provide values when asked". We can explain the difference with an example : 

Lets say we construct an array, where each of the elements is `2**i` and `i` the index. We can construct an equivalent list comprehension / generator expression like so : 

```python
# list comprehension
[2**i for i in range(10)]

# generator expression
(2**i for i in range(10))
```

Although they look very similar, there is a key difference. Under the hood, the list comprehended array looks like this : 

`[1,2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 63, 128, 256, 512, 1024]`

While the generator expression creates something like this : 

`[2**0, ...]` (The rest of the expression is uncomputed. Even if it were computed, it would look something like this `[2**0, 2**1, 2**2, 2**3, 2**4, 2**5, 2**6, 2**7, 2**8, 2**9, 2**10]`)

As you can see, the list comprehension computes all the values, while the generator expression computes the first one and leaves it as it is. Only when you call `next()` on the generator does it evaluate what `2**0` means and returns the value `1`. This is the power of lazy evaluation, values are only computed when required, and left as is if not. While this computation is not too intensive, as more computation is involved, generator expressions become drastically faster.

So while the first solution created a list of all pairs `[a,n-a]`, then filtered it for pairs that are both No-Zero integers, and then returned just the first one, the second solution only computed the first pair of No-Zero integers in the generator expression, left the rest for later, and returned immediately when `next()` was called.

Not only was this time efficient, it was also more memory efficient.

## Equivalent Code :

### Solution 1 :
```python
def getNoZeroIntegers:
    pairs = []
    for a in range(n): # iterating through all possible a values
        pairs.append([a,n-a]) # creating list of all pairs

    ret = []
    for i in pairs: # iterating through all pairs
        if '0' not in str(i[0]) and '0' not in str(i[1]): # filter for No-Zero integers
            ret.append(i) # add to final list

    return ret[0] # return first valid pair
```

### Solution 2 :
```python
def getNoZeroIntegers(self, n):
    for a in range(n): # iterating through all possible a values
        if '0' not in str(a) and '0' not in str(n-a): # checking if both are No-Zero numbers
            return [a,n-a] # early break if found
```

When reading these two implementations it is much easier to see where time and memory is lost in computation.