# Solution 1805 - Number of Different Integers in a String

## Solution : 

```python
def numDifferentIntegers(self, word):
    return len(set(map(int,filter(lambda x:x,"".join([i if i.isdigit() else ' ' for i in word]).split(' ')))))
```

## Explanation : 

This code is a stack of abstract list functions, comprehensions, and typecasting. Let's explore the layers from the innermost statement and branch outwards.

`[i if i.isdigit() else ' ' for i in word]` takes every character from the word and puts it into a list of the same length. If the character is a digit, it leaves it as is, otherwise, it puts a whitespace in the non-digit character's place

We then convert this back to a string with `"".join(...)`, essentially removing all non-digit characters from word and replacing them with spaces.

Splitting this by the whitespace character (`...split(' ')`) gives us blocks of numbers, but also empty strings that occur from consecutive blocks of whitespace.

This new list of empty strings and numbers is passed through a `filter` with a function `lambda x:x`, which evaluates to true for any non-empty string (removing all the empty ones from the list).

We then `map` the `int` function to this list, converting all the integers stored as strings into actual numbers. This is necessary so that zero-padded numbers are not incorrectly identified as unique compared to their potentially differently padded counterparts. (`"001"` $\neq$ `"1"` as strings, but 001 $=$ 1 when considering them as integers. They should not be considered unique numbers)

Converting this map object into a `set` removes all duplicate values.

The length of this resulting set finally gives us the number of different integers in the original string.

## Equivalent Code : 

```python
def numDifferentIntegers(self, word):
    ret = set() # set that stores all the numbers
    currNum = '' # tracks digits of each number
    for i in word:
        if i.isdigit():
            currNum += i # continually add digits to currNum
        else:
            if currNum: ret.add(int(currNum)) # if char is not a digit, add the number to the set, 
            currNum = '' # and reset currNum 
    if currNum: ret.add(int(currNum)) # added one last time incase the word ends with a number so the else condition is not flagged at end of iteration
    return len(ret)
```