# Solution 2057 - Smallest Index with Equal Value

## Solution : 

```python
def smallestEqual(self, nums):
    return ([i for i in range(len(nums)) if nums[i] == i%10]+[-1])[0]
```

## Explanation : 

This code returns the smallest index in `nums` where `nums[i] == i%10`, or `-1` if none are found.

We can use a list comprehension to form a list of all indices in `nums` where the condition is true, and return the first element of this new list. Since we iterate in ascending order of index, the first element is guaranteed to be the smallest index.

The comprehension can be performed like so : `[i for i in range(len(nums)) if nums[i] == i%10]`. Or alternatively with `filter` : `filter(lambda x:nums[x]==x%10,range(len(nums)))`

However, this does not account for the case where none of the elements of `nums` satisfy this property. In which case, the comprehension returns an empty list and accessing its first element throws an error. To account for this, we can simply append `-1` to the end of the list. If the list is non-empty, a valid index is returned, otherwise `-1` is the first element. We can do this like so : `[...] + [-1]`

Finally, we return the first index of this list. We need to be careful to add brackets so that we consider the whole list with `-1` appended.

Alternatively, for memory efficiency with large values, we can use a generator with a default value like so : `return next((i for i in range(len(nums)) if nums[i] == i%10),-1)`. Although in theory this is more efficient, the leetcode tests are setup in a way that the generator uses about 0.2 more MB of memory, dropping the memory score from beating 100% of submissions to about 8%.

## Equivalent Code : 

```python
def smallestEqual(self, nums):
    for i in range(len(nums)):
        if nums[i] == i%10: # if condition is satisfied,
            return i # break early to return index
    return -1 # return -1 if none are found
```