# Solution 2864 - Maximum Odd Binary Number

## Solution : 

```python
def maximumOddBinaryNumber(self, s):
    return "1"*(s.count("1")-1) + "0"*s.count("0") + "1"
```

## Explanation : 

This code concatenates strings of zeroes and ones to represent the largest odd binary number we can make by rearranging a given binary number

The return statement is split into three parts : Set bits, Unset bits, and Odd bit. Let's go through each part.

Since the number returned must be odd, we know the last bit must be set, hence we return a string with a `"1"` at the end : `return ... + "1"`

The largest number we can make with the remaining bits must have leading ones. This is because according to the place values, the start of a binary number will always be a higher power of two than any that follow, meaning a binary string starting with just ones always is the largest possible binary string with that number of ones.

Because one of the ones is already used for the set bit, for a number with `n` ones, we can only start with `n-1` ones if we are "reusing" digits. Hence the "Set bits" segment has as many ones as the number of ones in `s`, minus 1. `"1"*(s.count("1") - 1)`

Now we do the same for the zeroes since we have to retain the same bits as the orignal string, just moved around. Since we arent using any zeroes anywhere else, the number of zeroes in the "Unset bits" segment is the same as in `s`. `"0"*s.count("0")`

We concatenate these three segments together in order to have our final result : `return "1"*(s.count("1")-1) + "0"*s.count("0") + "1"`

And we are done! But there is one thing to note.

Usually, to keep the program error-free and the output clean, we would add extra logic. In our case, the problem requirements take care of this for us, however this may not always be true. For example : 

- **Checking that there is atleast one `1` in `s` :**
    Since we are multiplying by the number of ones in `s` minus one, we should ideally validate the multiplier value, which we wouldn't want to be negative.
    This is not a concern in Python, where multiplying a string by a negative number results in an empty string, which works in our favour. 
    But also, the problem states that the input string **does** contain atleast one `"1"`

- **Checking that the string starts with a leading one :**
    By convention, we would omit leading zeroes in binary strings. 
    Ideally for a clean output, if there was only one `"1"`, we would check this and omit leading zeroes, resulting in a returned string of just `"1"` instead of perhaps `"00001"`
    The problem states that the resulting string **can** have leading zeroes, so we don't have to worry about this.

You may have to consider these logical differences in other programming languages or for problems with varying preconditions and postconditions.

## Equivalent Code : 

```python
def scoreOfString(self, s):
    ret = ''

    ones = s.count("1") # number of ones
    ret += "1" * (ones - 1) # subtract 1 to make space for odd bit 
    
    zeroes = s.count("0") # number of zeroes
    ret += "0" * zeroes

    ret += "1" # odd bit

    return ret
```